== Masterdata Guide

=== Overview

Masterdata is the necessary base data to run MOSIP services. The data
resides in
https://github.com/mosip/admin-services/tree/release-1.2.0/db_scripts/mosip_master[`mosip++_++master`
database]. This data needs to be customized for a country specific
deployment.

=== Populating masterdata

Masterdata may be uploaded in the following manner:

[arabic]
. One-time bulk upload:
[arabic]
.. https://github.com/mosip/mosip-data/tree/release-1.2.0/mosip_master/xlsx[Default
masterdata] (for sandbox installation): Using
https://github.com/mosip/mosip-infra/tree/develop/deployment/v3/mosip/masterdata-loader[Helm
chart]. The default data uploaded during sandbox installation is
available in
https://github.com/mosip/mosip-data/tree/release-1.2.0/mosip_master/xlsx[mosip-data].
.. Country specific data: Using
https://github.com/mosip/mosip-infra/tree/develop/deployment/v3/mosip/masterdata-loader[Python
scripts].
. Updates: Updates to tables may be done using the
link:test/admin-portal-user-guide.md[Admin Portal].

=== Creating country specific data

The tables that need to be modified for country specific data are listed
below. Other tables in `mosip++_++master` DB are either system-filled or
pre-filled and not to be modified.

==== Common guidelines

* Copy Excel files from
https://github.com/mosip/mosip-data/tree/release-1.2.0/mosip_master/xlsx[mosip-data]
to a folder.
* For all tables listed below modify `lang++_++code` and add
corresponding rows for your
link:../../supporting-services/module-configuration.md#languages[configured
languages].
* Modify the files for your deployment as per guide below.
* Upload *first time* using scripts given
https://github.com/mosip/mosip-infra/tree/release-1.2.0/deployment/v3/mosip/kernel/masterdata[here].
* Subsequently, update data ONLY using
link:test/admin-portal-user-guide.md[Admin Portal].

==== Tables to be updated

[width="100%",cols="8%,9%,83%",options="header",]
|===
|Category |Table |Guide
|Documents |`doc++_++category` |Categories of documents to be captured

| |`doc++_++type` |Specific documents related to a country

| |`applicant++_++valid++_++document` |Mapping of document category,
type and
https://github.com/mosip/mosip-config/blob/develop3-v3/applicanttype.mvel[applicant
type]

|Location |`loc++_++hierarchy++_++list` |List of location hierarchy

| |`location` |List of locations stored in a hierarchical format

| |`loc++_++holiday` |Holidays specific to different locations. Used in
registration centre creation.

|Machine |`machine++_++type` |Example mobile, stationary. Refers to
`machine++_++spec`.

| |`machine++_++spec` |Model, make of the registration machine

|ID Schema |`identity++_++schema` |Refer to
link:../../identity-management/id-schema.md[ID Schema customisation].
Update the JSON in `schema++_++json` column of
https://github.com/mosip/mosip-data/tree/lts/mosip_master/xlsx/identity_schema.xlsx[`identity++_++schema.xlsx`]

| |`dynamic++_++field` |Dynamic dropdowns used during data capture

| |`id++_++type` |Only `name` and `descr` can be changed based on
language

| |`ui++_++spec` |UI specification for registration and pre-registration
UI screens. See link:masterdata-guide.md[UI spec guides]

|Registration client |`permitted++_++local++_++config` |List of
changeable configurations by the operator

| |`app++_++authentication++_++method` |Only `method++_++seq` can be
changed

| |`app++_++detail` |Only `name` and `descr` can be changed based on
language

| |`app++_++role++_++priority` |Only `priority` can be changed

| |`authentication++_++method` |Only `method++_++seq` can be changed

| |`reason++_++list` |List of reasons for a reason category

| |`reason++_++category` |Only `name` and `descr` can be changed based
on language

|Registration center |`reg++_++center++_++type` |Type of center

| |`registration++_++center` |List of registration centers

| |`registration++_++center++_++h` |Historical data for any modification
done on a registration center. One time intialization of this table
identical to `registration++_++center`. Thereafter, the data will be
system updated

| |`reg++_++exceptional++_++holiday` |Exception holiday for a
registration center

| |`reg++_++working++_++nonworking` |Working and non-working day for a
center

|Biometrics |`biometric++_++attribute` |Only `name` and `descr` can be
changed based on language

| |`biometric++_++type` |Only `name` and `descr` can be changed based on
language

|Templates |`template` |Only `name`, `descr`, `file++_++txt` can be
changed based on language

| |`template++_++file++_++format` |Only `descr` can be changed based on
language

| |`template++_++type` |Only `descr` can be changed based on language

|Others |`blocklisted++_++words` |List of blocked words

| |`daysofweek++_++list` |Only `name` can be changed based on language

| |`module++_++detail` |Only `name` and `descr` can be changed based on
language

| |`process++_++list` |Only `name` and `descr` can be changed based on
language

| |`status++_++list` |Only `descr` can be changed based on language

| |`status++_++type` |Only `name` and `descr` can be changed based on
language

| |`title` |List of titles used in the country

| |`zone` |List of administrative zones in a country
|===
